In the previous step we created an application using sping initialiser for the currency exchange service.
In this step we would try and create a simple service what we want to do is port for this application
is eight thousand right so that basically the port that we have already configured here in your application
dot properties for currency exchange service.
We have server dot port as eight thousand.
What we want to do is when we hit localhost eight thousand and we want to create a service for currency
exchange.
We want to create a rest service for this currency exchange.
And I would want to be able to pass from which currency from USD to.
INR Indian rupee.
So I would want to be able to create an currency exchange service something similar to that.
So let's first try and create a simple hard coded service before we would actually convert it to connect to JPA
and retrieve the data back from back end.
What we're trying to get here is what is the conversion factor if I want to convert a USD U.S. dollar
into Indian rupees.
What is the conversion factor for example to create.
For example it's around 65 rupees.
So 1 USD 65 Indian rupees.
So in response they would be from currency USD to currency is INR.
And let's say the conversion multiple is 65.
That's the kind of response that we are expecting out of this is what I'll do is I'll start with creating
a simple controller.
So we'll try and create a simple rest controller First up I'll call this currency exchange controller.
Let's finish this off.
I would want this to be a rest controller so I'll say rest controller I would want to be able to send json
request and send response in json format out and I'll create a method the response type for this is
what we would call as exchange value.
So we'll create a bean for that very soon so exchange value and we'll say retrieve exchange value.
What would we want this service to be map to what is the URL that we would want to map to this.
It's very simple right let's get mapping and I can put the URL in here the URL we would want to map is how ever.
The important thing is this is going to be from and this is going to be to these are path para meters.
And if you want to be able to pick up the values in the path parameters how do we do that.
at path variable and type of this path variable from is string from.
And I would all to have a path variable.
So what we are trying to define in here is a simple rest service so we would want to be able to take the input as the
currency exchange from USD to INR.
And what happens the USD gets map to this from variable INR gets a map to the to variable that's
cool.
We don't really have our exchange value been yet so I'll press control one or command one over here and I'll say
create class exchange value and say finish.
We have exchange value class in here over here.
We need to have basically at least the minimum once so the string from that to basic one and private string
to so from currency to currency the other one we would need to have for any of the beans we would typically
have ID.
Add an ID in and also we would want to get the conversion factor as the output.
I'll use big decimal because that's the most accurate form and I would say conversion multiple let's organize
the imports control shift o.
And right know what we have is a very simple exchange.
value bean right it would be able to say what is the currency from what did the currency to and what
is the conversion multiple.
What I'll do is  I'll create constructors alt shift s generate constructor using fields.
Ok that's cool.
We now have a Exchange value constructor and at later point we will actually convert this to a JPA Entity so I'll create
a no argument constructor as well.
That would make JPA happy other than this will create the default getters.
So generate getters and setters and say select getters and say Ok.
So what we have in here is a very simple bean that can store the values related to exchange value.
So now I can return this bean from the retrieve exchange value.
For now I would just return hardcoded one so new exchange value the first value is the ID I'll just send
in some dummy value as the ID for now I'll say thousand L and from to and I'll say the conversion factor for now
is hardcoded big decimal dot value of 65 65.
Let's start up the currency exchange service application.
Right click on java application.
It would start on port 8000 as we saw earlier the application as started up and I'll go to the browser
and try and hit the URL you can see that.
Now when I had the URL currency exchange from U.S. D to INR I am getting  ID 1000 from USD to INR and the conversion
multiple is 65.
That's very cool.
So what we did in the step is created a very simple controller method.
What we wanted to expose the rest service for this.
for now we have hardcoded the exchange value values.
We would actually want to get them from a in-memory database which we will do a little later.
For now we created the instance of exchange value which can accept an ID from to.
And the conversion factor.
And we are returning that value back until the next step bye bye.